- [Narrator] Unfortunately, not every batch job
runs successfully the first time.
To help us handle this situation,
Spring Batch allows failed jobs to be restarted.
The framework only allows a job to be restarted
if the overall status of a job execution
is marked as failed or stopped.
By default, it does not allow completed jobs
to be restarted.
When a job is restarted,
Spring Batch will create a new job execution
for the particular job instance that failed,
and it will restart at the failed step,
executing from that point forward.
Let's see this in action
by modifying a step
within our job configuration to fail.
That way we can see the results.
So we're going to introduce some boolean logic
within our drive to address step.
Let's imagine that
we can get lost while we are driving
our package to the address for delivery.
So, we'll just introduce a boolean,
and we'll name that boolean Got Lost.
And I'm going to initially set it to true.
And then, within the execute method
of our tasklet,
I'm going to add a conditional
that determines if we got lost,
and if so,
we're going to then throw a run time exception.
And any time an exception is thrown
within a Spring Batch job,
it's going to cause the job to fail
if we don't have any other configuration in place.
So here we'll create our run time exception,
we'll say "Got lost driving to the address",
and then if the boolean is not marked as true,
we're going to continue driving to the address
and arrive there.
So we just have a way to toggle
the success or failure
of our drive to address step.
So let's go over to our console,
and using our script,
I'm going to kick off the job.
And let's take a look at the results.
First we'll have to build the job with Maven,
and then we'll go ahead and launch it.
Okay, so you can see that
we have a stack trace,
within the job itself,
and that's due to the run time exception
that was thrown.
So we did not successfully complete our job.
And if we navigate over to our job repository,
we can query the job repository
to see some information about
what exactly happened.
You can see that we have one job instance,
we attempted one execution of that job instance,
and it did fail.
And then when we take a look at
the step execution,
you can see that we successfully
packaged the item,
but we failed in driving to the address.
So let's go back to our code,
and this time,
we're just going to toggle the got lost boolean,
and we're going to set it to false,
that way we succeed.
So this is going to be the second run
of this job instance,
and we can head back over to our terminal,
I'll clear it out,
and then we can run the job again.
So this time,
it's going to be successful,
and what I want you to see is that
we're not going to execute
the package items step again,
because it successfully completed.
So here you can look within
the output to the console,
and you can see that it's not going
to execute the package item step,
but we do execute the drive to address step,
because it previously had failed,
and when we relaunch the job,
we would like to complete it successfully.
Now if we navigate back to the job repository,
we can go ahead and query the database,
and you'll now see that
we still only have one job instance,
because we used the same parameters.
We have a second job execution,
and that job execution completed successfully,
and then if we take a look at our step execution,
you can see that for the second job execution,
we executed the drive to address step
and the give package to customer step.
Both of those steps completed successfully.
At this point,
it's important to understand that jobs and steps
have specific statuses that are assigned
based upon the results of a job execution.
Steps have an exit status that affects
the overall batch status.
These statuses ultimately decide
if a job can be restarted,
and where the job is restarted from.
These concepts will be important
in later lessons.